---
layout: post
title: libtiff-4.0.1 and rmagick don't fit together
published: true
---
h1. {{ page.title }}

p(meta). 01 Jun 2012

h2. Problems?

I'm assuming you're running MacOS with Homebrew installed.
Some nice day you decide to update formulas, everything was fine, but... When you tried to start rails console, or server, you got:
bc. file not found: /usr/local/lib/libtiff.3.dylib for architecture x86_64

Or something like this. Bum! You're in problem now.
It happes because of the libtiff update. It bumped up @libtiff.3.dylib@ to @libdiff.5.dylib@. But @rmagick@ still relies on vercion 3. And it was not updated since Aprill 5, 2010 What a mess...

h2. Homebrew to the rescue!

You are using Homebrew, aren't you?
If so, described problem has a neat solution. All you have to do is revert libtiff to version 3. Watch the hands:

bc. brew versions libtiff
4.0.1    git checkout 9139239 /usr/local/Library/Formula/libtiff.rb
3.9.5    git checkout 1bcb7dc /usr/local/Library/Formula/libtiff.rb
3.9.4    git checkout 0476235 /usr/local/Library/Formula/libtiff.rb
3.9.2    git checkout 91cc316 /usr/local/Library/Formula/libtiff.rb
3.9.1    git checkout e306bc5 /usr/local/Library/Formula/libtiff.rb
3.8.2    git checkout 69ec0ed /usr/local/Library/Formula/libtiff.rb

bc. brew switch libtiff 3.9.5
Cleaning /usr/local/Cellar/libtiff/3.9.5
Cleaning /usr/local/Cellar/libtiff/4.0.1
99 links created for /usr/local/Cellar/libtiff/3.9.5

and finally I decided to reinstall all my gems (btw: I'm using rvm, and if you don't, go use!)Just @rvm gemset delete <yout_gemset_name>@, create it againg and @bunle@.

That's it!
